<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition
        xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
        xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
        xmlns:tr="http://myfaces.apache.org/trinidad"
        xmlns:trh="http://myfaces.apache.org/trinidad/html"
        xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
        xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jstl/core"
        xmlns:ebi="http://ebi.ac.uk/faces/components">

    <tr:document title="What is this view?">

        <tr:panelHeader text="Browsing (Browse Tab)" inlineStyle="margin-left: 10px; margin-right:10px">
            This tab is meant to give you access to more content based on the currently
            selected set of interaction. As you can see, in this tab we have grouped
            features under the interacting molecule types. Please note that some of these
            functionalities will only allow you to include up to 200 molecules , if you exceed
            this number you will see the warning icon . Now let’s look at the features
            available to you:

            <tr:panelHeader text="Listing the molecules involved by specific type">
                Clicking on the ‘List All’ present under each molecule type will open
                the corresponding list of molecule in the List Tab.
            </tr:panelHeader>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Limiting the scope of the current dataset with the GO ontology">
                Allows users to browse the GO hierarchy as a tree and select terms
                in order to narrow down their dataset. Once a term is selected,
                you are taken back to the interaction tab to review your dataset.
            </tr:panelHeader>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Limiting the scope of the current dataset with the ChEBI ontology">
                Allows users to browse the ChEBI hierarchy as a tree and select terms in order
                to narrow down their dataset. Once a term is selected, you are taken back
                to the interaction tab to review your dataset.
            </tr:panelHeader>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Bulk linking to third party resources by using involved proteins">

                <ul>
                    <li><strong>Proteins by InterPro domain</strong>: Opens the InterPro domain search and shows in a
                        single display the proteins interacting in your interaction set.
                    </li>

                    <li><strong>Proteins by Reactome pathway</strong>: Sends your proteins to the Reactome SkyPainter
                        that will show you the pathways in which these molecules are know to play a role.
                    </li>

                    <li><strong>Proteins by Chromosomal location</strong>: Sends your list of proteins to Ensembl’s
                        Karyotype viewer and overlays the proteins on the chromosomes.
                    </li>

                    <li>
                        <strong>Proteins by mRNA expression</strong>: Sends your set of proteins to the ArrayExpress Atlas
                        that will show the known gene expression based on experimental studies.
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </tr:panelHeader>

        </tr:panelHeader>

    </tr:document>

</ui:composition>