<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition
        xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
        xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
        xmlns:tr="http://myfaces.apache.org/trinidad"
        xmlns:trh="http://myfaces.apache.org/trinidad/html"
        xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
        xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jstl/core"
        >

    <!-- Include this hack to avoid using the "general" conversation -->
    <ui:include src="/pages/inc/dialogConversationHack.xhtml"/>

    <tr:document title="What is this view?">

        <tr:panelHeader text="Binary interactions" inlineStyle="margin-left: 10px; margin-right:10px">

            <p>
            In this tab, we display the list of interaction that you have selected using one of our
            search features. Despite the fact that our data are annotated to accurately reflect
            the interactions reported in scientific literature, the data is shown in this view
            as binary interactions. Whenever the data was reported as a co-complex involving more
            than two molecules, we store it as such in the IntAct database and post-process it so
            the portal can show it as binary interaction. This post-processing is the Spoke Expansion
            model (connects bait to all preys):
            </p>

            <tr:panelHorizontalLayout halign="center">
                    <tr:image source="/images/documentation/matrix-spoke.png"
                              shortDesc="Spoke and Matrix Expansion Algorithm"/>
            </tr:panelHorizontalLayout>

            <p>
            At any moment you can choose to display the expansion column in this view in order to see
            which interaction are spoke expanded and which are not.
            </p>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Description of what has changed">
                <ul>
                    <li>We have added some icons in the first two column to indicate the roles of the
                        molecule in the interactions.
                    </li>
                    <li>We have added icons with hyperlinks to the reference databases of the interacting
                        molecule, as well as links to our molecule viewer: Dasty2, which will give you more
                        information about the molecule (once clicked, it opens the Molecule View tab).
                    </li>
                    <li>We have added more download options to allow users to retrieve their interaction set
                        using more standard formats such as PSI-MI XML and PSIMITAB.
                    </li>
                </ul>
            </tr:panelHeader>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Configuring the view to your need">
                In the header of the interaction table you will find a button: ‘Change Column Display’
                that will show you all the columns available and allow you to update the current
                selected set.
            </tr:panelHeader>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Downloading the data into Standard formats">
                In the header of the interaction table you will find a drop down list that contains
                all the formats currently supported when downloading the interaction data. Select
                one of them and click the export button next to the list. Please note that PSI-MI XML
                is only available when the interaction set is no bigger than 1000 interactions.
            </tr:panelHeader>

            <tr:panelHeader text="Opening the interaction details">
                Clicking on the magnifying glass in the first column of the interaction table
                will open the details of the corresponding interaction in the Interaction Details tab,
                giving you access to more details of the manually curated record.
            </tr:panelHeader>
        </tr:panelHeader>

    </tr:document>

</ui:composition>