<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:jsp="http://java.sun.com/JSP/Page"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:t="http://myfaces.apache.org/tomahawk"
      xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jstl/core"
      xmlns:s="http://myfaces.apache.org/sandbox"
      xmlns:fn="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/functions"
      xmlns:ebi="http://ebi.ac.uk/faces/components"
      xmlns:bs="http://intact.ebi.ac.uk/binarysearch">
<body>

<f:view>

    <ui:composition>

        <p>The MITAB25 format has been derived from the tabular format provided by BioGrid.
            MITAB25 only describes binary interactions, one pair of interactors per row.
            Columns are separated by tabulators.</p>

        <p>The colum contents should be as follows:</p>

        <ul>
            <li>1. Unique identifier for interactor A, represented as databaseName:ac, where
                databaseName is the name of the corresponding database as defined in the
                PSI-MI controlled vocabulary, and ac is the unique primary identifier of
                the molecule in the database. Identifiers from multiple databases can be
                separated by "|". It is recommended that proteins be identified by stable
                identifiers such as their UniProtKB or RefSeq accession number.
            </li>
            <li>2. Unique identifier for interactor B.</li>
            <li>3. Alternative identifier for interactor A, for example the official gene
                symbol as defined by a recognised nomenclature committee. Representation
                as databaseName:identifier. Multiple identifiers separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>4. Alternative identifier for interactor B.</li>
            <li>5. Aliases for A, separated by "|". Representation as databaseName:identifier.
                Multiple identifiers separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>6. Aliases for B.</li>
            <li>7. Interaction detection methods, taken from the corresponding PSI-MI controlled
                vocabulary, and represented as darabaseName:identifier(methodName),
                separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>8. First author surname(s) of the publication(s) in which this interaction has
                been shown, optionally followed by additional indicators, e.g. "Doe-2005-a".
                Separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>9. Identifier of the publication in which this interaction has been shown.
                Database name taken from the PSI-MI controlled vocabulary, represented as
                databaseName:identifier. Multiple identifiers separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>10. NCBI Taxonomy identifier for interactor A. Database name for NCBI taxid taken
                from the PSI-MI controlled vocabulary, represented as databaseName:identifier.
                Multiple identifiers separated by "|".
                Note: In this column, the databaseName:identifier(speciesName) notation is only
                there for consistency. Currently no taxonomy identifiers other than NCBI taxid are
                anticipated, apart from the use of -1 to indicate "in vitro" and -2 to indicate
                "chemical synthesis".
            </li>
            <li>11. NCBI Taxonomy identifier for interactor B.</li>
            <li>12. Interaction types, taken from the corresponding PSI-MI controlled vocabulary, and
                represented as dataBaseName:identifier(interactionType), separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>13. Source databases and identifiers, taken from the corresponding PSI-MI controlled
                vocabulary, and represented as databaseName:identifier(sourceName). Multiple source
                databases can be separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>14. Interaction identifier(s) in the corresponding source database, represented by
                databaseName:identifier
            </li>
            <li>15. Confidence score. Denoted as scoreType:value. There are many different types of
                confidence score, but so far no controlled vocabulary. Thus the only current
                recommendation is to use score types consistently within one source.
                Multiple scores separated by "|".
            </li>
            <li>16. All further columns are currently undefined.</li>
        </ul>

        <p>All columns are mandatory. Where values are missing, an empty cell is marked by "-".</p>


    </ui:composition>

</f:view>

</body>
</html>