<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
                xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
        >

<section class="grid_18 alpha">
<h2 id="ftp">FTP</h2>

<ui:param name="ftp" value="#{intactViewConfiguration.ftpUrl}"/>
<ui:param name="complexFtp" value="#{intactViewConfiguration.complexFtpUrl}"/>

<ul>
    <li>
        IntAct is released monthly. All IntAct data and software is freely available to all users,
        academic or commercial, under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, from
        <a href="#{ftp}" target="_blank">#{ftp}</a>
    </li>
    <li>Contents of the IntAct FTP directory:
        <ul>
            <li><a href="#{ftp}/all.zip">all.zip</a>: entire contents of this directory,
                compressed.
            </li>
            <li><a href="#{ftp}/cv" target="_blank">cv</a>: controlled vocabularies.</li>
            <li><a href="#{ftp}/psi25" target="_blank">psi25</a>: IntAct data in PSI-MI 2.5 format.
                See the <a href="http://psidev.sourceforge.net/mi/rel25" target="_blank">PSI website</a> for a
                detailed format description.
            </li>
            <li><a href="#{ftp}/psimitab" target="_blank">psimitab</a>: IntAct data in PSI-MI TAB format.
                See the <a href="#{ftp}/psimitab/README" target="_blank">README</a> for a
                detailed format description.
                <br/>
                <a href="#{ftp}/psimitab/intact.zip"
                   target="_blank">intact.zip</a>: entire contents of the database in a single file.
                <br/>
                <a href="#{ftp}/psimitab/pmidMITAB.zip"
                   target="_blank">pmidMITAB.zip</a>: entire contents of the database, each file represents a publication.
            </li>
            <li><a href="#{ftp}/various" target="_blank">various</a>: Data subsets for exchange with
                collaborating databases.
            </li>
            <li><a href="#{ftp}/various/data-mining"
                   target="_black">Sentences for text-mining</a> - textual evidence of manually curated interactions.
            </li>
        </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Contents of the IntAct Biological Complexes FTP directory:
        <ul>
            <li><a href="#{complexFtp}/psi25" target="_blank">psi25</a>: IntAct complexes in PSI-MI 2.5 format.
                See the <a href="http://psidev.sourceforge.net/mi/rel25" target="_blank">PSI website</a> for a
                detailed format description.
            </li>
        </ul>
    </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="curatedDs">Curated Datasets</h2>

<p>
    Curated datasets are publications tagged, either computationally or manually by a curator, as being relevant to a specific area of biology.
    These are actively maintained and grow with every release.
    <br/>
    New datasets can be requested, if relevant to your work, by mailing intact-help@ebi.ac.uk.
</p>

<h3 id="manDs">Manually selected datasets</h3>

<ul>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:affinomics&quot; or detmethod:&quot;MI:0813&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="><strong>Affinomics</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Interactions curated for the Affinomics consortium.
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
        value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Affinomics.zip">
    <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                    style="border:0px solid;"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        This dataset contains interactions which have been derived in the
        context of the EU Affinomics project (Grant number 241481). This
        comprises interactions directly submitted by the consortium partners as
        well as interaction derived from the literature. The current focus is on
        interactions derived by Proximity Ligation Assay (<a
            href="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ontology-lookup/?termId=MI:0813" target="_blank">MI:0813</a>), a method
        pioneered by the group of consortium partner Ulf Landegreen.
    </p>
</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:alzheimers&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="><strong>Alzheimers</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Interaction dataset based on proteins with an association to Alzheimer disease
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Alzheimers.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>


    <p>
        The compilation of this dataset and its curation was carried out in collaboration with Perreau V.M. University
        of Melbourne, Australia. Interactions were investigated in the context of Alzheimers disease with a particular focus
        on APP (A4) protein. The articles to be curated were determined based on protein annotations and literature scanning.
    </p>

    <p>Publications based on this dataset: PMID:
        <a href="http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123349836/abstract?CRETRY=1&amp;SRETRY=0"
           target="_blank">20391539</a>
    </p>

</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:biocreative&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>BioCreative</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Critical Assessment of Information Extraction systems in Biology
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/BioCreative.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        The Biocreative dataset is a large dataset of curated publications from the <a href="http://www.jbc.org/"
                                                                                       target="_blank">Journal of Biological Chemistry (2006)</a> and
        <a href="http://www.signaling-gateway.org/aboutus/" target="_blank">Nature publishing house</a>
        which were manually curated by IntAct curators.
        This dataset has been used in <a href="http://biocreative.sourceforge.net/biocreative_2_ppi.html"
                                         target="_blank">BioCreative II</a> (Critical Assessment of Information Extraction systems in Biology): Protein-Protein Interaction Task
        . The protein-protein interaction task focused on the prediction of protein interactions from full text articles,
        which are represented in the Biocreative dataset.
        The Biocreative dataset provided by IntAct is a resource for text mining development and testing. The data file (source-text.txt) that provides a mapping between
        IntAct interactions and the sentence(s) of the publication that allowed an IntAct curator to identify the interaction is available
        <a href="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/various/data-mining/" target="_blank">here</a>.

    </p>

    <p>Publications based on this dataset: PMID:
        <a href="http://genomebiology.com/2008/9/S2/S5" target="_blank">18834496</a>,
        <a href="http://genomebiology.com/2008/9/S2/S1" target="_blank">18834487</a>,
        <a href="http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/10/S1/S55" target="_blank">19208158</a>
    </p>
</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:cancer&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>Cancer</strong>
        </span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Interactions investigated in the context of cancer
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Cancer.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        This dataset consists of interactions of proteins that are involved in cancer.
        An ongoing literature survey was carried out to determine publications of interest.
        Protein annotations were also considered when choosing the publications to be curated.
    </p>

</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:chromatin&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>Chromatin</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Epigenetic interactions resulting in chromatin modulation
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Chromatin.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        Chromatin relevant protein-protein interaction studies have been curated by IntAct curators from peer
        reviewed literature. These comprise interactions which are involved in modulating, modifying or forming
        chromatin. This dataset aims at capturing major epigenetic interactions resulting in chromatin modulation.
        Most of the publications were derived from 'Chromatin Papers ListServe' maintained by Bone J.
    </p>

</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:complexes&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>Complexes</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Interaction dataset based on curated protein complexes.
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Complexes.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        The Complexes dataset is a dataset for modelled protein complexes curated by IntAct curators from peer
        reviewed literature.
    </p>

</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:cyanobacteria&quot;">
    <span class="icon icon-functional"
          data-icon="="><strong>Cyanobacteria</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Interaction dataset based on Cyanobacteria proteins and related species
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Cyanobacteria.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        This dataset was obtained in a collaboratice effort with Franck Chauvat, Corinne Cassier-Chauvat,
        Jean-Cristophe Aude, Magali Michaut, and Pierre Legrain from DBJC, CEA Saclay, Gif-Sur-Yvette, France.
        Cyanobacteria like Synechocystis sp. can be used as model organism as they undergo both oxidative respiration and photosythesis.
        Cyanobacteria have many features common to bacteria including a lack of compartmentalisation. This dataset is used to gather articles
        showing interactions relevant to plant photosynthesis, redox metabolism, resistance to metal and oxidative stress.
        Most interactors belong to Cyanobacteria species, with a focus on Synechocystis sp. (strain PCC 6803), TaxID 1148,
        but some interactors belong to species where biological events seen in Cyanobacteria may also occurs like
        plants for photosynthesis. Also, the dataset contains a number of hybrid experiments using electron transfer
        between proteins from different species.
    </p>

    <p>Publications based on this dataset: PMID:
        <a href="http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/full/24/14/1625?view=long&amp;pmid=18508856"
           target="_blank">18508856</a>
    </p>

</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:diabetes&quot;">
    <span class="icon icon-functional"
          data-icon="="><strong>Diabetes</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink> - Interactions investigated in the context of Diabetes
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Diabetes.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        This dataset consists of interactions of proteins that are involved in
        diabetes.
    </p>

</li>
<li>
    <h:outputLink
            value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:parkinsons&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional"
          data-icon="="><strong>Parkinsons</strong></span>
    </h:outputLink>
    - Interactions investigated in the context of Parkinsons disease
    <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
    <h:outputLink
            value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Parkinsons.zip">
        <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                        style="border:0px solid"/>
    </h:outputLink>

    <p>
        Interactions were investigated in the context of Parkinsons disease with
        a particular focus on LRRK2 protein and were derived in the context of
        the The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research LRRK2 Biology
        LEAPS Award 2012.
    </p>

</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="compDs">Computationally maintained datasets</h3>

<p>
    These datasets are computationally maintained but additional papers may be manually added to this set by a curator during the curation process.
    When datasets are computationally added to a publication, the large scale papers (more than 100 interactions per experiment) are excluded.
</p>
<ul>
    <li>
        <h:outputLink
                value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:afcs&quot;">
            <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>AFCS</strong></span>
        </h:outputLink>
        - Interactions from the Alliance for Cell Signaling database
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
        <h:outputLink
                value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/AFCS.zip">
            <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                            style="border:0px solid"/>
        </h:outputLink>

        <p>This dataset was obtained from the Alliance for Cell Signaling database.
            The Alliance of Cellular Signalling (AFCS) consisted of around 20 institutions which were engaged in a collaborative effort to investigate
            and understand cellular signalling networks (<a href="http://www.afcs.org/"
                                                            target="_blank">http://www.afcs.org/</a>).
            The AfCS used high-throughput methods to detect protein-protein interactions between signaling molecules expressed in B
            cells and cardiac myocytes. The AfCS arranged a collaboration with Myriad Genetics to perform large-scale yeast two-hybrid
            screens. IntAct acted as a data repository of protein-protein interaction data generated by the AFCS project.
        </p>
    </li>
    <li>
        <h:outputLink
                value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:apoptosis&quot;">
            <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>Apoptosis</strong></span>
        </h:outputLink>
        - Interactions involving proteins with a function related to apoptosis
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
        <h:outputLink
                value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Apoptosis.zip">
            <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                            style="border:0px solid"/>
        </h:outputLink>
        <p>
            Datasets of apoptosis relevant protein-protein interaction studies are curated by IntAct curators from peer reviewed
            literature. These datasets are a resource for biologists seeking to understand protein interaction networks and cell death.
            Small-scale interactions involving proteins annotated with the GO terms "Apoptosis" are included in this set.
        </p>

    </li>
    <li>
        <h:outputLink
                value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:archaea&quot;">
            <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>Archaea</strong></span>
        </h:outputLink>
        - Interaction dataset based on Archaea proteins
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
        <h:outputLink
                value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Archaea.zip">
            <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                            style="border:0px solid"/>
        </h:outputLink>

        <p>
            Archaea are phylogenetically very different from Bacteria and Eukarya and show many differences in their
            biochemistry from other forms of life. This was considered of interest and peer reviewed literature that
            is curated is scanned for interactions involving proteins from this group.
        </p>
    </li>
    <li>
        <h:outputLink
                value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:msd&quot;">
        <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>PDBe</strong></span>
        </h:outputLink>
        - Data obtained from the Protein Data Bank Europe
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
        <h:outputLink
                value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/MSD.zip">
            <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                            style="border:0px solid"/>
        </h:outputLink>

        <p>
            The Protein Data Bank in Europe (PDB3) is the European project for the collection, management and distribution of data
            about macromolecular structures, in collaboration with Worldwide Protein Data Bank (<a
                href="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pdbe/" target="_blank">wwPDB</a>).
            IntAct has incorporated a subset of the data from this database involving heterodimeric protein interactions.
        </p>

    </li>
    <li>
        <h:outputLink
                value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:ndpk&quot;">
            <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>NDPK</strong></span>
        </h:outputLink>
        - Interactions involving proteins containing InterPro domain IPR001564, Nucleoside diphosphate kinase, core.
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
        <h:outputLink
                value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/NDPK.zip">
            <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                            style="border:0px solid"/>
        </h:outputLink>

        <p>NDPKs, which play a major role in the synthesis of nucleoside triphosphates other than ATP, also possess other enzymatic
            activities and are required for cell proliferation, differentiation and development.</p>

        <p>Publications based on this dataset: PMID:
            <a href="http://www.springerlink.com/content/8311676488281522/" target="_blank">19415463</a>
        </p>

    </li>
    <li>
        <h:outputLink
                value="http://www.ebi.ac.uk/intact/query/annot:&quot;dataset:synapse&quot;">
            <span class="icon icon-functional"
              data-icon="="><strong>Synapse</strong></span>
        </h:outputLink>
        - Interactions of proteins with an established role in the presynapse.
        <span class="icon icon-functional" data-icon="="/>
        <h:outputLink
                value="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Synapse.zip">
            <h:graphicImage alt="PSI 2.5" value="/images/psi25.png"
                            style="border:0px solid"/>
        </h:outputLink>
        <p>
            This dataset has been created for proteins-protein interactions involving at least one protein with an
            established link to the synapse. The list of human, rat and mouse gene names used for computationnally maintaining
            this dataset are available <a
                href="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/datasets/Synapse/misc/gene-names.csv"
                target="_blank">here</a>.
            Interactions made by orthologous proteins have been added manually by IntAct curators.
        </p>

    </li>
</ul>

<h2 id="speciesDs">Species-based datasets</h2>

<p>Species specific datasets are generated from the protein-protein interaction data curated from peer reviewed
    journals and are available <a href="ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/intact/current/psi25/species/">here</a>.
    The data are based on the taxonomy of the proteins taking part in the interaction.
    Analysis of one such dataset, which involved Arabidopsis proteins has been discussed in PMID: <a
            href="http://www.plantcell.org/cgi/content/full/22/4/997">20371643</a>.
</p>
</section>

<!--Navigation menu-->
<section class="grid_6 omega">
    <h3>Downloads</h3>

    <div class="int-nav">
        <ul id="download-nav">
            <li class="first"><a href="#ftp">FTP</a></li>
            <li><a href="#curatedDs">Curated Datasets</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="#manDs">Manually selected datasets</a></li>
                    <li><a href="#compDs">Computationally maintained datasets</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>
            <li class="last"><a href="#speciesDs">Species-based datasets</a></li>
        </ul>
    </div>
</section>

</ui:composition>
