<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<ui:composition
        xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
        xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
        xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html">

        <h1>Binary interactions</h1>

            <p>
            In this tab, we display the list of interactions that you have selected using one of our
            search features. Despite the fact that our data are annotated to accurately reflect
            the interactions reported in scientific literature, the data is shown in this view
            as binary interactions. Whenever the data was reported as a co-complex involving more
            than two molecules, we store it as such in the IntAct database and post-process it so
            the portal can show it as binary interaction. This post-processing is the Spoke Expansion
            model (connects bait to all preys):
            </p>

            <br/>
            <br/>

            <h:panelGroup style="text-align: center">
                <h:graphicImage alt="sourceExp" url="/images/documentation/matrix-spoke.png"
                                title="Spoke and Matrix Expansion Algorithm"
                                class="center"/>
            </h:panelGroup>

            <br/>
            <br/>

            <p>
            At any moment you can choose to display the expansion column in this view in order to see
            which interaction are spoke expanded and which are not.
            </p>

            <h2>Description of what has changed</h2>
                <ul>
                    <li>
                        We have added more download options to allow users to retrieve their interaction set
                        using more standard formats such as PSI-MI XML and PSIMITAB (version 2.5, 2.6 or 2.7) but also
                        XGMML, RDF and Biopax (level 2 and 3).
                    </li>
                    <li>
                        We have now four different table views : minimal(molecule names and interaction AC), basic (minimal +
                        molecule links, interaction detection method, negative), standard(minimal + molecule species, confidences,
                        publication details, experiment details), expanded (standard + more experiment details) and complete
                        (all mitab 2.7 columns).
                    </li>
                </ul>

            <h2>Configuring the view to your need"</h2>
                In the header of the interaction table you will find a button: ‘Change Column Display’
                that will show you all the columns/Table views available and allow you to update the current
                selected set.

            <h2>Downloading the data into Standard formats"</h2>
                In the header of the interaction table you will find a drop down list that contains
                all the formats currently supported when downloading the interaction data. Select
                one of them and click the export button next to the list. Please note that PSI-MI XML
                is only available when the interaction set is no bigger than 1000 interactions.

            <h2>Opening the interaction details"</h2>
                Clicking on the magnifying glass in the first column of the interaction table
                will open the details of the corresponding interaction in the Interaction Details tab,
                giving you access to more details of the manually curated record.

</ui:composition>
